contents.md, before:

[![MIT Licensed][icon-mit]][license]
[![Kottans-Backend][icon-kottans-be]][kottans-backend]
[![Ideas and useful links][icon-ideas]][ideas]
[![Awesome][icon-awesome]][awesome]
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

# Backend-End Course. Contents

## Stage 0. Self-Study

The online stage of _Backend-End Course_. Following tasks should be completed
at home to participate in offline stage. Learn more in [README](README.md).

0.  [Git Basics](tasks/git-intro.md)
1.  [Unix Shell](tasks/unix-shell.md)
1.  [VCS (hello gitty), GitHub and Collaboration](tasks/git-collaboration.md)
1.  Data Structures
1.  TCP, UDP, Network
1.  HTTP & HTTPs
1.  File System
1.  I/O 
1.  Runtime & Ecosystem
1.  Databases
1.  Language-specific Topics: Part I
1.  Language-spesific Topics: Part II

## Stage 1. The Show Must Go On

0.  Backend Applications Architecture: Intro
1.  Environment
1.  Language-spesific Topics: Advanced
1.  HTTP Server
1.  DYI Framework: Wrapper around HTTP module
1.  DYI Framework: Routing
1.  DYI Framework: Middleware
1.  Database Interaction Patterns: DAO, Repository, ActiveRecord
1.  Databases & SQL: Advanced Topics
1.  NoSQL Data Bases
1.  Design Patterns in Backend Applications (MVC etc.)
1.  Security & Auth
1.  Testing. CI & CD. Containerization.
1.  Profiling, Load Testing, Logging.
1.  Background Tasks & Delayed Execution

### Course Project

Pizza Application


[icon-chat]: https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20telegram-blue.svg
[icon-mit]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg
[icon-ideas]: https://img.shields.io/badge/google--doc-ideas-ff69b4.svg
[icon-awesome]: https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg
[license]: https://github.com/Kottans/web/blob/master/LICENSE.md
[awesome]: https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome
[ideas]: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bZJhYjK3VHOS2HmQb2Fs4aHfEBt8mp1F09j9nEEDaqE/edit#gid=818017811
[icon-kottans-be]: https://img.shields.io/badge/%3D(%5E.%5E)%3D-backend-yellow.svg

Commit message:

add disclaimer for JS self-study

contents.md, after:

[![MIT Licensed][icon-mit]][license]
[![Kottans-Backend][icon-kottans-be]][kottans-backend]
[![Ideas and useful links][icon-ideas]][ideas]
[![Awesome][icon-awesome]][awesome]
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

# Backend-End Course. Contents

## Stage 0. Self-Study

Important note for NodeJS course. In NodeJS course we expect students to be familiar with JavaScript before starting the main part of the course. Here is a list of topics you should be confident with:

1. Array mehods (filter, map, reduce etc.)
1. ES6 features: arrow functions, classes
1. Promises, async/await
1. ES6 modules (import/export syntax)
1. TBA

If you need to catch up, you can use the following materials for self-study:
1.  [JavaScript Basics](https://github.com/kottans/frontend/blob/master/tasks/js-basics.md) - list of materials suggested to frontend course students
1.  [NodeSchool](https://nodeschool.io/) workshops
1.  TBA

The online stage of _Backend-End Course_. Following tasks should be completed
at home to participate in offline stage. Learn more in [README](README.md).

0.  [Git Basics](tasks/git-intro.md)
1.  [Unix Shell](tasks/unix-shell.md)
1.  [VCS (hello gitty), GitHub and Collaboration](tasks/git-collaboration.md)
1.  Data Structures
1.  TCP, UDP, Network
1.  HTTP & HTTPs
1.  File System
1.  I/O 
1.  Runtime & Ecosystem
1.  Databases
1.  Language-specific Topics: Part I
1.  Language-spesific Topics: Part II

## Stage 1. The Show Must Go On

0.  Backend Applications Architecture: Intro
1.  Environment
1.  Language-spesific Topics: Advanced
1.  HTTP Server
1.  DYI Framework: Wrapper around HTTP module
1.  DYI Framework: Routing
1.  DYI Framework: Middleware
1.  Database Interaction Patterns: DAO, Repository, ActiveRecord
1.  Databases & SQL: Advanced Topics
1.  NoSQL Data Bases
1.  Design Patterns in Backend Applications (MVC etc.)
1.  Security & Auth
1.  Testing. CI & CD. Containerization.
1.  Profiling, Load Testing, Logging.
1.  Background Tasks & Delayed Execution

### Course Project

Pizza Application


[icon-chat]: https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20telegram-blue.svg
[icon-mit]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg
[icon-ideas]: https://img.shields.io/badge/google--doc-ideas-ff69b4.svg
[icon-awesome]: https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg
[license]: https://github.com/Kottans/web/blob/master/LICENSE.md
[awesome]: https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome
[ideas]: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bZJhYjK3VHOS2HmQb2Fs4aHfEBt8mp1F09j9nEEDaqE/edit#gid=818017811
[icon-kottans-be]: https://img.shields.io/badge/%3D(%5E.%5E)%3D-backend-yellow.svg
