tasks/python_basics_1.md, before:

[![MIT Licensed][icon-mit]][license]
[![Awesome][icon-awesome]][awesome]
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

# Python Basics Part I

Important note. In Python course we expect students to be familiar with Python before starting the main part of the course. Here is a list of topics you should be confident with:

1. Data structures in python (lists, tuples, dicts, sets)
1. Dict and list comprehensions
1. Iterators and generators. What is different and what is similar? How to build own?
1. Decorators. How they works? How to build own (function and class based)?
1. Collections methods (map, reduce, filter, sort) and lambda functions
1. OOP basics. What is "Class", object? How to write your own classes
    1. __init__ method
    1. self keyword in class methods
    1. @classmethod, @staticmethod decorators
1. Code style [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) or [PEP8[RU]](https://pep8.ru/doc/pep8/)

If you need to catch up, you can use the following materials for self-study:
1.  [CodingBat](https://codingbat.com/python): elementary exercises
1.  [CodeCademy Python](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-python)
1.  [Practice Python](https://www.practicepython.org/) - 36 exercises with solutions for beginners
1.  Python track on [HackerRank](https://www.hackerrank.com/domains/python)
1.  [Google's Python Class](https://developers.google.com/edu/python/)
1.  [Learn Python](http://www.learnpython.org/): list of interactive tutorials
1.  TBA


Please complete the courses and tutorials listed below:

1. [A Byte of Python](https://python.swaroopch.com/)
1. [Python on CodeWars](https://www.codewars.com/collections/basic-python)
1. [Python Koans](https://github.com/gregmalcolm/python_koans)
1. [Intro to Data Structures and Algorithms](https://www.udacity.com/course/data-structures-and-algorithms-in-python--ud513)
1. [Python Lessons(RU)](https://devpractice.ru/python-lessons/)

## Done?

➡️ Go forward to [Memory Management](memory-management.md)

⤴️ Back to [Contents](../contents.md)

[icon-chat]: https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20telegram-blue.svg
[icon-mit]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg
[icon-awesome]: https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg
[license]: https://github.com/Kottans/web/blob/master/LICENSE.md
[awesome]: https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome

Commit message:

add draft python hackerrank tasks list

tasks/python_basics_1.md, after:

[![MIT Licensed][icon-mit]][license]
[![Awesome][icon-awesome]][awesome]
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

# Python Basics Part I

Important note. In Python course we expect students to be familiar with Python before starting the main part of the course. Here is a list of topics you should be confident with:

1. Data structures in python (lists, tuples, dicts, sets)
1. Dict and list comprehensions
1. Iterators and generators. What is different and what is similar? How to build own?
1. Decorators. How they works? How to build own (function and class based)?
1. Collections methods (map, reduce, filter, sort) and lambda functions
1. OOP basics. What is "Class", object? How to write your own classes
    1. __init__ method
    1. self keyword in class methods
    1. @classmethod, @staticmethod decorators
1. Code style [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) or [PEP8[RU]](https://pep8.ru/doc/pep8/)

If you need to catch up, you can use the following materials for self-study:
1.  [CodingBat](https://codingbat.com/python): elementary exercises
1.  [CodeCademy Python](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-python)
1.  [Practice Python](https://www.practicepython.org/) - 36 exercises with solutions for beginners
1.  Python track on [HackerRank](https://www.hackerrank.com/domains/python), here is minimal [suggested](python_hackerrank.md) tasks
1.  [Google's Python Class](https://developers.google.com/edu/python/)
1.  [Learn Python](http://www.learnpython.org/): list of interactive tutorials
1.  TBA


Please complete the courses and tutorials listed below:

1. [A Byte of Python](https://python.swaroopch.com/)
1. [Python on CodeWars](https://www.codewars.com/collections/basic-python)
1. [Python Koans](https://github.com/gregmalcolm/python_koans)
1. [Intro to Data Structures and Algorithms](https://www.udacity.com/course/data-structures-and-algorithms-in-python--ud513)
1. [Python Lessons(RU)](https://devpractice.ru/python-lessons/)

## Done?

➡️ Go forward to [Memory Management](memory-management.md)

⤴️ Back to [Contents](../contents.md)

[icon-chat]: https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20telegram-blue.svg
[icon-mit]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg
[icon-awesome]: https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg
[license]: https://github.com/Kottans/web/blob/master/LICENSE.md
[awesome]: https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome
